OSDOCS-12662: adds concept for install docs MicroShift (#87038)
openshift/openshift-docs: microshift_install_get_ready/microshift-install-get-ready.adoc

* Image mode for {op-system-base} is available with the Technology Preview support scope. This image-based installation type is based on OCI container images and bootable containers. See link:https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2024/09/24/bootc-getting-started-bootable-containers[bootc: Getting started with bootable containers] for an introduction to bootc technology.

When choosing an image-based installation, consider whether the installation target is intended to be in an offline or networked state, where you plan to build system images, and how you plan to load your {op-system-bundle}. Use the following scenarios as general guidance:

** If you build either a fully self-contained {op-system-ostree} or an image mode for {op-system-base} ISO outside a disconnected environment, and then install the ISO locally on your edge devices, you likely do not need an RPM repository or a mirror registry.
** If you build an ISO outside a disconnected environment that does not include the container images, but consists of only the RPMs, you need a mirror registry inside your disconnected environment. You use your mirror registry to pull container images.

> ** If you build images inside a disconnected environment, or use package mode for installations, you need both a mirror registry and a local RPM mirror repository. You can use either the {op-system-base} reposync utility or Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite for advanced use cases. See link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7019225[How to create a local mirror of the latest update for Red{nbsp}Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9 without using Satellite Server?] and link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/management/satellite[Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** If you build images inside a disconnected environment, or use package mode for installations, you need both a mirror registry and a local RPM mirror repository. You can use either the {op-system-base} reposync utility or Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite for advanced use cases. See link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7019225[How to create a local mirror of the latest update for Red{nbsp}Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9 without using Satellite Server] and link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/management/satellite[Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite] for more information.
```

toc::[]

> Plan for your {op-system-bundle} by planning your {microshift-short} and {op-system-base-full} installation type.

Author: Actually. No, I think it's more correct to plan for a RHEL installation type and a MicroShift configuration. Thanks for the thought-stopper there.

Plan to pair a supported version of {op-system-ostree} with the {microshift-short} version you are using as described in the following compatibility table:

include::snippets/microshift-rhde-compatibility-table-snip.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="get-ready-install-tools-intro_{context}"]

> == Installation tools for {microshift-short} installation types

Reviewer: We mention "installation types" in the heading, but did not yet explain them. Lets do this here (see other comments below)

Although each use case has different details, each installation of {microshift-short} with a {op-system-base-full} type generally leverages {op-system-base} tools, and can involve an internal mirror registry.

[id="get-ready-install-rhel-tools_{context}"]
=== {op-system-base} tools and considerations

> To use {microshift-short}, you must already have or plan to install a {op-system-base} type, such as on bare metal, as a virtual machine that you provision, or as an operating system image to be deployed to an edge endpoint.

Reviewer: What is "an edge endpoint"? Never heard of that term.
I think it would be more clearly to differntate the "installation target": Bare Metal directly onto an edge device, or virtualize onto an .
Then, we need to differentiate the "installation type", of which we now have three:
1. traditional  rpm package installation, aka "package mode"
2. old  image mode using the classic rpm-ostree image builder tool chain, aka "rhel for edge"
3. image mode using the new bootc oci image builder tool chain, aka "rhel image mode"
If an airgapped/offline installation is required, special considerations are needed, depending on the installation type. 

we introduce this later in a section, but actually I think we should do this right at the beginning, as this is the most important question (instead of talking about pull secrets or oc client)

** See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_logical_volumes/overview-of-logical-volume-management_configuring-and-managing-logical-volumes[Overview of logical volume management] for more information about creating volume groups and persistent volumes on {op-system-base}.
** See xref:../microshift_storage/microshift-storage-plugin-overview.adoc#microshift-storage-plugin-overview[Dynamic storage using the LVMS plugin] for more information about the {microshift-short} plug-in.

* Configure networking settings according to the access needs you plan for your {microshift-short} cluster and applications. Consider whether you want to use single or dual-stack networks, configure a firewall, or configure routes.
** See xref:../microshift_networking/microshift-networking-settings.adoc#microshift-networking[Understanding networking settings] for more information about {microshift-short} networking options.
//Q: should we have a RHEL link here as well?

* Install the {oc-first} to access your cluster, see xref:../microshift_cli_ref/microshift-oc-cli-install.adoc#microshift-oc-cli-install[Installing the OpenShift CLI tool].

> * Understand the differences between the valid {op-system-base} installation types available, along with the support scope for each and the tools used.

Reviewer: can we pull this block up and maybe even make it its own section heading, e.g. "Overview of available Installation types"?

** Image mode for {op-system-base} is available as Technical Preview.
** Sometimes, {op-system-rt-kernel} can be used where predictable latency is critical. Workload partitioning is also required for low-latency applications. See xref:../microshift_configuring/microshift_low_latency/microshift-low-latency.adoc#microshift-low-latency[Configuring low latency] for more information on low latency and the {op-system-rtk}.

* When choosing an image-based installation, consider whether the destination hardware is intended to be in an offline or networked state, where you plan to build system images, and how you plan to load your {op-system-bundle} onto the hardware. Use the following scenarios as general guidance:

** If you build either a fully self-contained {op-system-ostree} or image mode for {op-system-base} ISO outside a disconnected environment, then install the ISO locally on your edge devices, you likely do not need an RPM repository or a mirror registry.
** If you build an ISO outside a disconnected environment that does not include the container images, but consists of only the RPMs, you need a mirror registry from which to pull container images.

> ** If you build images inside a disconnected environment, or use package mode for installations, you need both a mirror registry and a simple file or directory-based RPM repository.

Reviewer: "... a simple file or directory-based RPM repository."
Can we turn this into:
a local rpm mirror repository (e.g simple file based using RHEL reposync tooling or Red Hat Satellite for advanced use cases).
We could add a link to reposync tooling: https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7019225 
Ling to Satellite: https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/management/satellite

> Using RPMs, or package-based installation, of {microshift-short}::

Reviewer: This shows as a heading in my preview, is that intended or a bug in the preview? I confuses me a bit. 
This is the installation type "package mode", I think we should pull this up and introduce earlier (see above comments)

This is simple installation type uses a basic command to install {microshift-short} on an existing {op-system-base} machine. See xref:../microshift_install_rpm/microshift-install-rpm.adoc#microshift-install-rpm[Installing from an RPM package]. No other tools are required unless you are also installing a {op-system-base} system or virtual machine (VM) at the same time. For a package-based {op-system-base} installation, you can use {op-system-base} image builder.

{op-system-base} image installation with {microshift-short} embedded::

Image or container-based installation types involve creating an `rpm-ostree`-based version of {op-system-base} that is optimized for edge deployment. Familiarize yourself with the following {op-system-base} tools that are used for creating {op-system-ostree} images:

> * A Kickstart file, which provisions your specific operating system.

Reviewer: using a kickstart file is not exclusive to "image mode", it could be usefull for all installation types.

Understand the differences between the valid {op-system-base} installation types available, along with the support scope for each and the tools used.

[id="microshift-get-ready-install-rpm_{context}"]
=== Using RPMs, or package-based installation

This is simple installation type uses a basic command to install {microshift-short} on an existing {op-system-base} machine. See xref:../microshift_install_rpm/microshift-install-rpm.adoc#microshift-install-rpm[Installing from an RPM package]. No other tools are required unless you are also installing a {op-system-base} system or virtual machine (VM) at the same time.

[id="microshift-get-ready-install-rhel-image-based_{context}"]
=== {op-system-base} image-based installations

Image-based installation types involve creating an `rpm-ostree`-based, immutable version of {op-system-base} that is optimized for edge deployment.

> * {op-system-ostree} can be deployed to the edge in production environments. This installation type can be done with network connections or offline, depending on the local environment.

Author: No, I mean that you can install it in a place where there is the presence of a network or in the complete absence of a network.

> * Often, {op-system-ostree} is chosen for production clusters. This installation type can be done with network connections or offline, depending on the local environment.

Author: The distinction here is production versus TP. Both can deploy to the edge, really.

> * Image mode for {op-system-base} is available as Technical Preview.

Author: Added a good little link in here as well for learning.

> * Image mode for {op-system-base} is available as Technical Preview. This image-based installation type is based on OCI container images and bootable containers. See link:https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2024/09/24/bootc-getting-started-bootable-containers[bootc: Getting started with bootable containers] for an introduction to bootc technology.

Author: It's not a feature, it is an image-based install type of RHEL.

> * Image mode for {op-system-base} is available as Technical Preview. This image-based installation type is based on OCI container images and bootable containers. See link:https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2024/09/24/bootc-getting-started-bootable-containers[bootc: Getting started with bootable containers] for an introduction to bootc technology.

Reviewer 2: Ah, okay! I thought "Technical Preview" was a typo for "Technology Preview". Good to know.

When choosing an image-based installation, consider whether the installation target is intended to be in an offline or networked state, where you plan to build system images, and how you plan to load your {op-system-bundle}. Use the following scenarios as general guidance:

> ** If you build either a fully self-contained {op-system-ostree} or image mode for {op-system-base} ISO outside a disconnected environment, then install the ISO locally on your edge devices, you likely do not need an RPM repository or a mirror registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** If you build either a fully self-contained {op-system-ostree} or an image mode for {op-system-base} ISO outside a disconnected environment, and then install the ISO locally on your edge devices, you likely do not need an RPM repository or a mirror registry.
```

> ** If you build an ISO outside a disconnected environment that does not include the container images, but consists of only the RPMs, you need a mirror registry inside your disconnected environment from which to pull container images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** If you build an ISO outside a disconnected environment that does not include the container images, but consists of only the RPMs, you need a mirror registry inside your disconnected environment. You will pull container images from the mirror registry.
```
I split this sentence in two to make it a little easier to parse. I realize that in doing so, I used the future tense ("will"), but I think it's acceptable here because this is a planning document and you're writing about things that will happen.

> ** If you build images inside a disconnected environment, or use package mode for installations, you need both a mirror registry and a local RPM mirror repository. You can use either the {op-system-base} reposync utility or Red Hat Satellite for advanced use cases. See link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7019225[How to create a local mirror of the latest update for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9 without using Satellite Server?] and link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/management/satellite[Red Hat Satellite] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** If you build images inside a disconnected environment, or use package mode for installations, you need both a mirror registry and a local RPM mirror repository. You can use either the {op-system-base} reposync utility or Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite for advanced use cases. For more information, see link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7019225[How to create a local mirror of the latest update for Red{nbsp}Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9 without using Satellite Server?] and link:https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/management/satellite[Red{nbsp}Hat Satellite].
```
See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#non-breaking-spaces

[id="microshift-get-ready-install-rhel-tools-concepts_{context}"]
== {op-system-base} installation tools and concepts

Familiarize yourself with the following {op-system-base} tools and concepts:

* A Kickstart file, which contains the configuration and instructions used during the installation of your specific operating system.
//xref:../microshift_install_kickstarts/microshift-rhel-kickstarts.adoc#microshift-rhel-kickstarts[Using Kickstart files for installting {microshift-short} in {op-system-base}]

> * {op-system-base} image builder is a tool for creating deployment-ready customized system images. {op-system-base} image builder uses a blueprint that you create to make the ISO. {op-system-base} image builder is best installed on a {op-system-base} virtual machine (VM) and is built with the `composer-cli` tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* {op-system-base} image builder is a tool for creating deployment-ready customized system images. {op-system-base} image builder uses a blueprint that you create to make the ISO. {op-system-base} image builder is best installed on a {op-system-base} VM and is built with the `composer-cli` tool.
```

> * {op-system-base} image builder is a tool for creating deployment-ready customized system images. {op-system-base} image builder creates a blueprint that you can edit, then uses the final blueprint to create the ISO. {op-system-base} image builder is best installed on a {op-system-base} virtual machine (VM) and is built with the `composer-cli` tool. See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_installing_and_managing_rhel_for_edge_images/setting-up-image-builder_composing-installing-managing-rhel-for-edge-images#edge-installing-image-builder_setting-up-image-builder[Installing image builder] ({op-system-base} documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {op-system-base} image builder is a tool for creating deployment-ready customized system images. {op-system-base} image builder takes a blueprint your provide, then uses it to create the ISO. {op-system-base} image builder is best installed on a {op-system-base} virtual machine (VM) and is built with the `composer-cli` tool. See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_installing_and_managing_rhel_for_edge_images/setting-up-image-builder_composing-installing-managing-rhel-for-edge-images#edge-installing-image-builder_setting-up-image-builder[Installing image builder] ({op-system-base} documentation).
```

> ** See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#composer-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Introducing the RHEL image builder command-line interface], link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/installing-composer_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image[Installing image builder], and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#creating-a-system-image-with-composer-in-the-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Creating a system image with RHEL image builder in the command-line interface] to set up these tools and review the workflows. ({op-system-base} documentation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To set up these tools and review the workflow, see the following {op-system-base} documentation: link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#composer-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Introducing the RHEL image builder command-line interface], link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/installing-composer_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image[Installing RHEL image builder], and link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#creating-a-system-image-with-composer-in-the-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Creating a system image with RHEL image builder in the command-line interface].
```

> * A blueprint file directs {op-system-base} image builder which items to include in the ISO. An image blueprint provides a persistent definition of image customizations and you can create multiple builds from a single blueprint. You can also edit an existing blueprint to build a new ISO as requirements change. See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#composer-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Creating a blueprint by using the command-line interface] for or more information. ({op-system-base} documentation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A blueprint file directs {op-system-base} image builder to which items to include in the ISO. An image blueprint provides a persistent definition of image customizations, and you can create multiple builds from a single blueprint. You can also edit an existing blueprint to build a new ISO as requirements change. For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#composer-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface[Creating a blueprint by using the command-line interface] in the {op-system-base} documentation.
```
I think you want to point here for the link: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#creating-a-composer-blueprint-with-command-line-interface_creating-system-images-with-composer-command-line-interface

* An ISO, which is the bootable operating system on which {microshift-short} runs.

> ** See link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder-in-the-command-line-interface_creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder[Creating a boot ISO installer image using the RHEL image builder CLI], link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#installing-the-iso-to-a-bare-metal-system_creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder[Installing a bootable ISO to a media and booting it], and xref:../microshift_install_rpm_ostree/microshift-embed-in-rpm-ostree.adoc#microshift-embed-in-rpm-ostree[Embedding in a {op-system-ostree} image using image builder].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder-in-the-command-line-interface_creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder[Creating a boot ISO installer image using the RHEL image builder CLI], link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/composing_a_customized_rhel_system_image/creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder_composing-a-customized-rhel-system-image#installing-the-iso-to-a-bare-metal-system_creating-a-boot-iso-installer-image-with-image-builder[Installing a bootable ISO to a media and booting it], and xref:../microshift_install_rpm_ostree/microshift-embed-in-rpm-ostree.adoc#microshift-embed-in-rpm-ostree[Embedding in a {op-system-ostree} image using image builder].
```

Author: BTW, I am following https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-link-attribute 
 and https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#links-to-external-websites throughout, which give examples of links without the "For more information..." etc.

Reviewer 2: Good to know. I'll make a note to ask the team about whether we need to make those resources consistent with the SSG, or if they somehow overrule the SSG guidance.

Reviewer 2: While I was looking at the guidance that you pointed to, I found this section of the contribution guidelines: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#lead-in-link-sentence-style-for-the-xref-attribute.

[id="microshift-get-ready-install-rhde-steps_{context}"]
== {op-system-bundle} installation steps

For most installation types, you must also take the following steps:

> * Be able to download the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret] from the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Download the link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret] from the Red{nbsp}Hat Hybrid Cloud Console.
```

> * Be ready to configure {microshift-short} by adding parameters and values to the {microshift-short} YAML configuration file. See xref:../microshift_configuring/microshift-using-config-yaml.adoc#microshift-configuring[Using the {microshift-short} configuration file]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Be ready to configure {microshift-short} by adding parameters and values to the {microshift-short} YAML configuration file. For more information, see xref:../microshift_configuring/microshift-using-config-yaml.adoc#microshift-configuring[Using the {microshift-short} configuration file].
```

> * Decide whether you need to configure storage for the application and tasks you are using in your {microshift-short} cluster, or decide to disable the {microshift-short} storage plug-in completely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Decide whether you need to configure storage for the application and tasks you are using in your {microshift-short} cluster, or disable the {microshift-short} storage plug-in completely.
```

> ** See link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_logical_volumes/overview-of-logical-volume-management_configuring-and-managing-logical-volumes[Overview of logical volume management] for more information about creating volume groups and persistent volumes on {op-system-base}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For more information about creating volume groups and persistent volumes on {op-system-base}, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html/configuring_and_managing_logical_volumes/overview-of-logical-volume-management_configuring-and-managing-logical-volumes[Overview of logical volume management].
```

> ** See xref:../microshift_storage/microshift-storage-plugin-overview.adoc#microshift-storage-plugin-overview[Dynamic storage using the LVMS plugin] for more information about the {microshift-short} plug-in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For more information about the {microshift-short} plug-in, see xref:../microshift_storage/microshift-storage-plugin-overview.adoc#microshift-storage-plugin-overview[Dynamic storage using the LVMS plugin].
```

* Configure networking settings according to the access needs you plan for your {microshift-short} cluster and applications. Consider whether you want to use single or dual-stack networks, configure a firewall, or configure routes.

> ** See xref:../microshift_networking/microshift-networking-settings.adoc#microshift-networking[Understanding networking settings] for more information about {microshift-short} networking options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** For more information about {microshift-short} networking options, see xref:../microshift_networking/microshift-networking-settings.adoc#microshift-networking[Understanding networking settings].
```

//Q: should we have a RHEL link here as well?

> * Install the {oc-first} to access your cluster, see xref:../microshift_cli_ref/microshift-oc-cli-install.adoc#microshift-oc-cli-install[Installing the OpenShift CLI tool].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install the {oc-first} to access your cluster. For more information, see xref:../microshift_cli_ref/microshift-oc-cli-install.adoc#microshift-oc-cli-install[Installing the OpenShift CLI].
```

[NOTE]
====

> {op-system-rt-kernel} can be used where predictable latency is critical. Workload partitioning is also required for low-latency applications. See xref:../microshift_configuring/microshift_low_latency/microshift-low-latency.adoc#microshift-low-latency[Configuring low latency] for more information on low latency and the {op-system-rtk}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{op-system-rt-kernel} can be used where predictable latency is critical. Workload partitioning is also required for low-latency applications. For more information about low latency and the {op-system-rtk}, see xref:../microshift_configuring/microshift_low_latency/microshift-low-latency.adoc#microshift-low-latency[Configuring low latency].
```

====

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

> * xref:../microshift_install_rpm_ostree/microshift-deploy-with-mirror-registry.adoc#microshift-deployment-mirror[Mirroring container images for disconnected installations].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* xref:../microshift_install_rpm_ostree/microshift-deploy-with-mirror-registry.adoc#microshift-deployment-mirror[Mirroring container images for disconnected installations]
```
